Hello everyone.
In this lesson we will continue to build out the travel Web site in particular.
We will focus on styling the testimonial section.
Let's dive right in and get started.
So here we are in the browser.
In this lesson we are going to transform this testimonials section into what we see in the design file
which is this now before we write even one line of new code.
Let's go ahead and jump to the command line and create a new get branch for this testimonial section.
We can create a new branch and check it out or switch to it in one move by typing get check out dash
be for branch and then the name of the branch that we want to create.
Let's name it testimonials.
Perfect.
And let's jump back to the design file.
Let's begin by finding this content in our hmo.
So over in our text editor within the HMO file we can find that content by searching for real testimonials
real testimonials.
All right.
So here is that heading.
I think the first thing we should work on is adding in this bit of vertical spacing at the top of the
section.
So in our HMO we already have this div surrounding all of the testimonials content.
Why don't we go ahead and give this a class that we created.
Many many lessons ago page section.
All right.
So that created the vertical spacing at the top of the section.
If we take a look at our design file I think the next thing we should do is add in this background image.
So within our HMO let's add a modifier class to the main testimonials parent div.
So page section dash dash to indicate a modifier class and let's call this modifier testimonials.
Save that.
Now let's go ahead and open up our page section CSX file to create that modifier rule.
So within app assets styles modules.
Here is the page section CSX file underneath this blue modifier class.
Let's create a new rule testimonials.
And let's go ahead and apply this background image.
So in our CSX let's just say background we want to use a U.R.L. that points towards an image.
Let's go to the root directory that is being served up and then go into the assets folder and then the
images folder and grab the testimonials dash BGP dot JPEG file.
Let's tell this image to be aligned towards the top of the section and horizontally.
It should be aligned in the center.
Let's also tell the image that it should not repeat or tile.
It should only display once.
And let's add another property named background size that will shrink or stretch the image to always
be large or small enough to perfectly cover the containing div.
So let's go ahead and save this and check out the browser looks good.
Next let's adjust the testimonial content so that it doesn't use the full browser window width but instead
only uses the middle twelve hundred pixels of the screen so we remember that in earlier lessons we created
a reusable block named wrapper that will do just that for us.
So over in our HD CML within the testimonials div let's just create a new div with a class of wrapper
and then let's cut and paste all of the testimonial content into that wrapper div.
So let's cut this pasted into the new wrapper div save this and check out the browser perfect next.
Let's go ahead and style this title headline.
If we check out the design file this headline style looks very familiar to me.
And it's because it is identical to the section title we set up for the outer features area except that
now the text is blue instead of white.
So let's go ahead and reuse the section titled block that we created so here the testimonials headline.
Let's go ahead and leverage the block that we created a few lessons ago.
So section title
all right now let's go ahead and move this icon into that heading level to so let's cut that pasted
in right here.
And if we look at the design file it looks like the word testimonials should be bold so let's wrap that
word in a strong tag
and I just remembered that back when we used this section title block in the our feature section we
actually gave the image element a class so that we can position it differently for small screens and
we gave it a class of section title underscore underscore icon
next.
Let's make this heading.
Text blue instead of dark gray.
So in our H2 demo let's go ahead and give that heading level to a modifier class of section title dash
dash blue and then let's open the section title CSX file and create a blue modifier class and we can
simply assign the color of our main blue variable perfect next.
Let's adjust the vertical positioning of this icon.
I feel like we can do a better job of aligning it with the text.
If we moved it down a few pixels so back within our section titled CSX file.
Here is the icon rule within this media query mix in let's say position relative top eight pixels.
So this will push the icon down eight pixels.
So let's save that.
I think that positioning looks better.
And if we check out the design file once again I think the next thing we should work on is creating
this three column layout so within our each team how underneath the heading level two that we were just
working on.
Let's create a new div that has a class of row.
So we know that we want three columns.
So let's create a div with a class of row underscore underscore medium for if we think in terms of a
12 column grid one third of 12 is four.
And we want three equal width columns and we only want these columns to exist for screens that are considered
at least medium or larger.
We want to maintain a single column stacked view on small screens.
So this is one call them let's go ahead and copy and paste this.
So there are three of them.
And then let's go ahead and begin cutting and pasting each section of testimonial content into column.
So this first group that consists of an image two headings in a paragraph.
Let's cut that pasted into this first column scroll down again.
Let's cut this next group and pasted into the next column and finally let's cut this final group and
paste it into this column and be sure to remove these extra empty lines
so that gives us a three column layout.
Next we want to set things up so there is a margin or gutter in between the columns.
So in our H2 GMO within the container row class we can give it a modifier of road dash dash gutters.
All right.
So at this point if we compare this with the design file I think we are ready to begin creating a reusable
block named testimonial that will be responsible for creating this styling.
So let's adjust our HDMI out.
So this first bit of content uses a new testimonial block.
And once we have things looking good then we can apply that block to the other two testimonials as well.
So over in our H GMO within our first column let's go ahead and create a new div and give it a class
of test.
So let's close that div and go ahead and indent this content and let's create a brand new CSX file to
go along with this new testimonial class name.
So within our modules CSX folder let's create a new file let's name it underscore testimonial dot CSX
create a class testimonial and before we forget let's go into our main styles dot CSX file and import
this new file.
So import modules underscore testimonial.
Let's save that and jump back into the new testimonial CSX file.
So I think the first thing we should do in this file is give the testimonial block a background color.
So if we check the design file if you look closely you can see that this is not a solid white background
color but it's actually transparent.
You can see a bit of the background image shining through.
So in our CSX instead of just saying background color solid white let's not use a hexadecimal color
code like that.
Let's use an be a color.
RG B.A. stands for red green blue and then the A's for Alpha transparency.
So to create the color white we max out the red green and blue.
So two fifty five for the red green and blue values.
And then if we want the White to be halfway transparent or halfway C through we can just do point five.
That's a bit too transparent.
Let's raise that two point seven.
I think we can raise that even a bit more to point A.
That looks good.
Next let's give this testimonial block a bit of padding.
So the content doesn't sit up against the very edges.
So if we check the design file let's measure how much padding we should use.
This looks like about twenty nine pixels to me.
So to put that into Rams twenty nine divided by sixteen let's copy that value to our clipboard let's
say padding.
We don't need any on the top.
Let's paste in that amount for the right padding.
Let's give it just one pixel of bottom padding.
I'll explain why in just a moment.
And for the left padding Let's paste in that value again and save room now even though we only gave
this element one pixel of bottom padding we clearly see more than one pixel of space here.
This is because the bottom margin on this paragraph can create space for us.
But if the containing element doesn't have any bottom padding.
So let's set this to zero the paragraph still has bottom margin but it leaks outside of it's containing
element.
So by giving the container element just even one single pixel of bottom padding it gives the bottom
margin of this content something to push up against next.
Let's begin styling the actual content of the testimonial.
So let's start at the top and work our way down.
So we will begin with the image.
First things first.
Let's go into our HDMI out and give that image a class that we can target with CSX.
So here is that image.
Instead of giving the image itself a class I think I will wrap the image in its own div.
So let's give it a class of testimonial underscore underscore photo.
Let's close out that div and be sure to indent the image so let's create a new rule that targets that
class underscore underscore photo.
If we check the design file I think the first thing we should work on is making the image appear to
be a circle instead of a square.
So back in our CSX we can create rounded corners by using a property named border radius.
So if I say border radius 30 pixels we don't see any change because the image is allowed to protrude
outside the edges of the containing div but if we tell this photo div to set it's overflow to be hidden
we see that these corners are rounded by 30 pixels.
Now the reason we don't see those rounded edges on the right side is because that containing div is
using the full available width.
So it's right side corners actually are rounded.
There just isn't any content for us to see the difference.
So we can give the illusion of the image being a circle.
If we tell the containing div to have exactly the same width and height that the image has we can find
out the exact size of this image by right clicking on it and click open image in new tab and then if
you hover your mouse over that tab you can see that it says at the end 160 by 160.
So let's do this.
Let's tell this div to have a width of one hundred and sixty pixels and a height of one hundred and
sixty pixels so now we can see the rounded edges on all four corners and now all we need to do to create
a circle is increase the border radius to be exactly half of the width or length of the image.
Right.
So if this rounded corner extended all the way to here and it was like that on all four sides that would
be a circle.
So let's increase the border radius from 30 to half of 160 which is 80
Perfect.
Next let's center this image horizontally.
To do that we can use margin let's use for shorthand.
So top zero.
Right.
Auto bottom zero left auto
looks good.
I used full shorthand because we are probably going to want to customize the bottom margin in just a
moment.
Next if we compare what we have in the browser to our design file it looks like we need to position
the image so that the top half violates the top edge of the containing element.
To do that we can use position relative so within our CSX let's say position relative.
So if we want the top half of the image to violate the edge we need to pull the image up half of its
height which would obviously be 80 pixels.
So let's say negative 80 pixels.
All right.
So that gave us the desired positioning in terms of violating the top edge.
But when you use position relative the surrounding content is not aware of the change meaning this content
doesn't know to move up 80 pixels as far as this content is concerned the image is still sitting where
it used to sit.
So we can counteract that by simply giving the image a bit of negative bottom margin so since we pulled
the image up 80 pixels using position relative let's just give it a bottom margin of negative 80 pixels
perfect next.
It looked like in the design file that the image is supposed to have a border.
So if you look really closely that looks like about a six pixel thick border to me.
So within our CSX let's go ahead and give this div a 6 pixel border that is solid and what color should
the border be.
Let's just use these same transparent white color that the container element is using for a background
color.
So let's copy that to our clipboard and then pasted it down here looks good.
Next let's work on the styling for these two headings.
Let's jump over to our HDMI out and give those headings classes so we can target them.
So let's give the first a class of testimonial underscore underscore title and for the next heading
first.
Let's change it to be an H for instead of an h three.
So that way from a semantics perspective we are indicating that this headline is more important than
this one.
And then let's give this a class of testimonial underscore underscore subtitle.
All right let's save this and jump back into our testimonial CSX file.
Let's create a new rule that targets the title element.
So if we check out the design file that heading should be blue and it should be center aligned.
So let's say color main blue text align center looks good.
Next let's adjust the font size.
So in the design file that heading looks like about twenty four pixels tall.
So in terms of RAM twenty four divided by 16 is one and a half.
So let's say font size one point five RAM and let's also lower the font weight a bit let's say font
weight 500 looks good.
I'm noticing that there's too much vertical spacing though above and below this heading.
So let's give it margins zero
much better.
Next let's focus on the styling for this heading.
So let's create a new rule in our CSF file underscore underscore subtitled We know that it should be
orange.
So color main orange it should also be center aligned horizontally.
So text align center you definitely don't want it to be too bold.
So let's give it a font weight of 400.
And in terms of font size if we check out the design file that looks like about 15 pixels to me.
So in terms of RAM 15 divided by 16 gives us this let's copy that to the clipboard pasted in say RAM.
That looks good but it has too much top margin.
If we check out the design file these two headings should be fairly close together so let's give it
a margin of only a quarter ram on top and one ram on the bottom.
See how that looks looks good.
And that will actually bring Part 1 of this three part lesson to a close in part two we will finish
styling the testimonials section and we will also make sure that it looks good on smaller screens.
Let's keep rolling along and I will see you in part two.